---
title: 'AGU 2023'
date: 2023-12-11
permalink: /updates/2023_agu
collection: updates
excerpt: I am co-convening a session at the AGU 2023 Fall Meeting 
---

This year, the AGU 2023 Fall Meeting is taking place in San Francisco, just down the road from me.
After the success of last year, Minah Yang and I are co-convening our AGU session on [Machine Learning Subgrid-Scale Parameterizations for Earth System Modeling](). 

We have [talks on Wednesday morning](https://agu.confex.com/agu/fm23/meetingapp.cgi/Session/203970) followed by a [poster session on Thursday morning](https://agu.confex.com/agu/fm23/meetingapp.cgi/Session/188917). 

I will be presenting a poster [Uncertainty Quantification of Machine Learning
Subgrid-Scale Parameterizations for Gravity Waves](http://lm2612.github.io/files/Poster_ML-UQ-AGU.pdf)

Sub-grid scale (SGS) parameterizations estimate effects of unresolved processes without modeling them directly and are often a large source of uncertainty in Earth system models (ESM). Advances in big data, machine learning/artificial intelligence (ML/AI) and hardware present new methods coupled with enhanced computational capabilities, which we can utilize for scientific applications. Specifically, we are interested in scientific ML/AI for replacing or adding to existing parameterizations.

We solicit contributions on various aspects of marrying data-driven methods to parameterizations from all weather and climate modeling communities. Topics may include:

    Type of data: observations types, high-resolution model outputs, remote sensing products
    Types of models and data processing: computer vision techniques, neural networks, filtering methods, data assimilation techniques for inverse problems,
    Developing data-driven models that include physical knowledge to ensure stability/conservation laws.
    Metrics to evaluate parameterization accuracy and model biases.
    Online-coupling of data-driven parameterization in GCMs: computational challenges, generalization to new climate.

